Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Now, I know after watching the lectures on all the different techniques you can use to MVP your feature
or product, you might have been repeatedly asking
the question to yourself "Can I do any of these in a
big, well-known organization?"
"What about our brand?"
Well, it's a great question.
And so, in this lecture, we're going to talk about the answer.
So how do big organizations run MVP tests?
Well, remember how we talked about the relationship
between risk and the size of your company?
Well, if you fell asleep let me just recap it for you,
this is the gist. The gist is larger organizations have
the resources to weather failed products.
It doesn't mean that they want their products to fail necessarily,
but if they do, it's not the end of the world.
So big organizations generally have a different risk to reward
calculus when it comes to launching new
products or new features.
A startup's main risk with a new product launch
is that they use up all of their resources.
That's the biggest risk for them. But the risk big organizations
care about is comprised of a lot
of other things, one of which is the risk to their brand.
So when you run an MVP test, you're going to
have to decide how much risk you can tolerate.
A general rule of thumb is that the larger the organization,
the more concerned they will be with brand,
and the less concerned they will be with resources. Pre-product startups - remember? - care the least about brand
because what does it matter how strong your brand is
if you're dead and you don't exist anymore?
Now, remember, when you run an MVP test,
there are numerous ways of tackling this,
and they all exist on a spectrum.
An email MVP is probably the easiest on resources,
but the most reckless with your brand. A Wizard of
Oz MVP probably is the most resource intensive,
after all, you have to actually make the front end of your supposed product, but it's the most protective of your brand.
People don't even notice that it's not officially your version 1.
If done well, it won't look to the user like anything is different.
But, generally, companies are going to reach a certain size
where they're beyond these tactics. In those
cases, as a product manager,
you'll be expected to build an MVP that is really more like
what most people incorrectly assume an MVP is.
It's a really, really basic version of your product,
and product managers in that type of situation are
calling it an MVP just because they're used to calling it that,
and everyone else knows what you're talking
about, even if it's the case that you make
Eric Ries cry. Your job in these roles is to think about
how exactly you can build out your features,
but in a way that doesn't expend any unnecessary resources.
You can't rely on parlor tricks anymore,
you really have to build at least something.
You can't really half step it.
The most common way that product managers
tackle this issue is through a type of MVP
we didn't actually cover. This type of MVP is called
"the one feature app." A one feature MVP is exactly
what it sounds like, when you build out literally
only one core function of your product or feature, and
then test its reception before slowly adding on more.
To do this well, you need to take every function in your feature or every feature in your product and list them out.
After that, you rank it based on the value to your user.
In 99% of the cases, one function or one
feature is going to stand out way more
than the others in terms of value,
so you just build that. Remember Foursquare?
It was this app where you could check into local businesses
or locations, you could win prizes, you could
network with other people, gather badges, you could do about
a million different things they were all location based.
The core of Foursquare's idea though was - can you guess it? -
to let people check in to their locations and
let their friends know this.
So when they built their MVP to see if anyone wanted
to use this, they just built literally that function.
You could connect your social networks, and then
you could check in. The check in would send out a text
to your social networks.
They didn't have photos, they didn't add hashtags,
they didn't add badges, because all of these things
are really secondary in value to the checking in process,
which was the number one thing they cared about.
As a product manager, you're going to be constantly making
hard decisions about what to build and what not.
It's really no exception in the land of MVPs.
You'll have to gauge your company's tolerance for risk.
Do they care more about resources or more about brand?
And then figure out the best way to optimize your
resource expenditure with the information that you need to gather.
It's exhausting, but I know you can do it.
So, cheer up! Alright guys, questions or concerns,
just post in the Q&A, we'll get to those.
Otherwise, see you in the next lecture.